
Hi, everybody, happy Friday. We're going to complete our conflicts with labor note guide using this loom and a couple of other videos that are embedded within it.
00:14
Um, so I'm just gonna talk to you about some things. You have your note guide, so please fill out your note guide.
00:20
Sometimes there's a film of blanks, sometimes there's a question, sometimes I've just provided some notes for you. You can pause it anytime, rewind it if you really want to.
00:28
Uh, and as I said, there's a couple of times I'll ask you to pause this, go watch a video, and then come on back.
00:33
all right here we go. So first big question is why do workers want to start a union in the first place?
00:42
Why do they want to organize? One of the big issues obviously is working conditions. So if you're in the steel industry so you work for one of Carnegie's plants, you're probably looking at work in seven days a week which means obviously because there's only seven days in a week you're working every day
00:57
. If you're working in the garment industry and the garment industry is the industry that will make all of these ready-made clothes now.
01:05
We talked about the singer sewing machine on our inventions chart. It's a new electric sewing machine. Well there's a whole industry built off of this and people start factories and they buy a couple of 100 sewing machines.
01:20
They put them in a big place. They hire a bunch of people, usually young women, and they have them so close and it's great right because they produce lots of garments that we can just buy off the rack but the conditions are obviously going to be very harsh and as you can see they're going to work six
01:36
days a week we would call these things sweatshops so if I'm sure that you've heard that term so really that's what's happening in the garment industry in this period of time so you're working every day or maybe you're lucky enough to get Sunday off.
01:50
12 or more hours a day You're going to go to work when you're supposed to report, could be 8 a.m., 9 a.m., what have you, and you will stay until your boss says it's time to go.
01:59
You can't say, well, it's been eight hours, it's five o'clock, I got to go. Only unless you want to lose your job.
02:06
So you're working every day or almost every day for 12 or more hours a day. There's no vacation in time, because none of these people are taking vacation.
02:14
There's no sick time. So clearly, if you're sick, you need to come to work. if you're really, really sick, you're just not going to get paid.
02:22
There's no reimbursement, sorry, for work injuries or deaths. So if you get hurt on the job and it happens very often, or someone dies because of an industrial accident, even if it wasn't their fault, there is no responsibility on the part of the employer to give your family money or to pay for your
02:44
health care or maybe money for the rest of your life because you can no longer work. There's no rules. It's just you got hurt or you unfortunately lost your life.
02:55
But the company has no responsibility. So obviously the conditions are unsafe. And even if you had a situation where you were like, well it's really it's pretty safe here.
03:06
I'm not working maybe with any big crazy machines. The conditions are still probably very poor, very dirty. There's not going to be proper ventilation.
03:15
There won't be proper lighting. Obviously when we talked about these young women in the garment industry sewing, they're not going to have probably enough light to actually be able to see.
03:26
So many of these women actually suffered some significant vision loss after working in these places for a number of years because their eyes are straining because there isn't proper light.
03:37
So even just simple things like that. On top of all of this, you're not getting paid very much. So in 1899, just for a statistic for you.
03:46
On average, if you were a child working in an industrial environment, you'd make about 27 cents a day. Women would make an average in 1899 to 167 dollars a day if they worked in the industrial sector.
04:00
Men in the industrial sector in 1899 made an average of $498 a day. This is the same year that Carnegie made $23 million.
04:07
So obviously, there is a big gap between the rich and the poor and industrial workers are really not going to be compensated fairly.
04:17
Alright, so because of this, workers start to organize. So some of our early labor organizations, I am not going to ask you any of these names I'm just giving you this information so you can kind of see the progression.
04:32
So our first large-scale national union, meaning it's everywhere. They have chapters everywhere, every state, was the National Labor Union that was formed in 1866.
04:43
So this is really shortly after this award. They do have a lot of chapters, as I said, they're our first large scale National Union, but they do oppose allowing African Americans to join.
04:54
So the colored National Labor Union is formed, obviously in response, and African American industrial workers will join this union. In 1869, the Knights of Labor is formed, and And this industrial union will be open to everyone.
05:09
Skilled workers, unskilled workers, women, men, persons of color. It doesn't matter. They just want a lot of laborers in their union because they feel they'll be more powerful.
05:20
Their big issue is they wanted an eight hour work day. They also want equal pay for equal work, meaning men and women should get paid the same amount.
05:27
They will use strikes, but they will only use them as a last resort. Again, a strike is when all of the workers in a particular place, let's just say forward motor company, ask their employer maybe for a race.
05:45
The employer says no, so the labor force says okay, we're going to walk off the job, we're not going to work until you give us our raise and the idea is that it would hit the company in the pocketbook because forward motor company would not obviously be able to produce any cars because all of their workers
06:01
were refusing to work, so it would entice the company to reach an agreement with their workers so that they would come back.
06:11
The Knights of Labor are aware of this tactic, but they rarely used it. They tried to use it only as a last resort.
06:19
The next big labor union, and actually it's a labor union that still exists, the American Federation of Labor or the AFL, is formed in 1886 by a guy by the name of Samuel goppers and there he is in your corner there.
06:31
This labor union only allowed skilled workers to join, but you could be from different trades. So you could be a carpenter, an electrician, a plumber, a pipe fitter, write something of that.
06:45
It doesn't, it didn't matter as long as you were a skilled tradesman. They wanted the same thing as the Knights, but one of the big differences between them is they have some different tactics.
06:55
So the American Federation labor would use something called collective bargaining. Let me click on this and just show you what that is.
07:02
So collective bargaining is when the union will organize workers and they will speak for the workers as a group. So the union official would go to let's say the president of Ford Motor Company and say our union would like a raise.
07:21
If you don't give us a raise, we'll go on straight. And Ford Motor Company may say, okay, I don't want my entire labor force to go on strike.
07:30
So I will reach an agreement with this unit. Now if you were an individual worker and you were working at Ford Motor Company and you went to the president of Ford Motor Company and said, I would like a race.
07:41
And they said, nope, I'm sorry, Mrs. Ives, you cannot have one. And I said, I'm going to go on strike.
07:47
They would say, okay, knock yourself out. So your only one worker, you're not going to stop us from making cars so we don't really care.
07:56
So the idea of collective bargaining for the union is that there is power in number, right? And this is something that the AFL did.
08:03
They also used strikes. The Knights of Labor did too, but only very infrequently as a last resort. The American Federation of Labor says, hey, strikes work.
08:15
We're going to use them. And they do. Very often. and they're very successful. They also advocate something called a closed shop.
08:24
A closed shop is something that that means in order for you to be hired, let's just go with our example Ford Motor Company, you automatically join the union.
08:38
So you may go on your first day of work and be like, hi, here I am. And they say, hello, please fill out this paperwork and you may see something that says, okay, sign here, you're no a member of the union and you say, I don't, I don't want to be a member of the union.
08:51
I know, you know, I didn't agree to that. And they would say, well, you have to. As a condition of your employment, you are part of the union and you will pay union dues and they will represent you and you will work under their contract.
09:04
Obviously, the AFL wants this because it benefits the union, right? So closed shops are better for labor unions. If there is an open shop And being a member of the union is not a condition of your employment.
09:19
That means you don't have to join. In that case, the union would have to approach every new employee and convince them to join the union to sell the union to them.
09:29
And some people just might automatically say no. And this might make it more difficult for the union in terms of they might not represent as many people.
09:38
So the employer might not necessarily They listen to them as much and be inclined to negotiate with them or agree to their demands.
09:50
And they probably wouldn't have as much money because they wouldn't have as many members and each member pays dues. So unions like closed shops better and the AFL is going to advocate for this idea of a closed shop.
10:05
There are also industrial unions around the country that are specific to one particular industry, there's also unskilled workers. So people that don't really have a trade per se, but they will join unions as well.
10:18
So we're going to really start to organize labor in the United States after the support. Oops, I'm sorry, let's see if I can click through there.
10:27
Alright, here we go. So what we begin to get then in the latter part of the 1800s are some significant conflicts between organized labor and different companies.
10:40
The first one I mentioned, this is an 1877 and this is the great strike of 1877 and this is the B&O Railroad, so if you ever play monopoly and you can buy the B&O Railroad, this is it, the Baltimore and Ohio.
10:52
So they, the workers were upset because they got a 10% wage cut the second in eight months yet they were being asked to work more hours.
11:01
So they said we're going to strike and they did and it basically shut down a railroad traffic between Baltimore and Ohio.
11:12
And this was obviously a big issue because you couldn't ship anything in this particular area. So the company called the government, the federal government, and said, help, right?
11:25
We like, this is crazy. We can't do anything. These workers won't work. So the president steps in. President Rutherford B.
11:33
Hayes was president at the time, and he intervenes and he says this isn't right these workers can't strike because they're impeding interstate commerce and he sends in federal troops and makes basically the workers go back to work.
11:56
This is going to set the tone of course Because if the government steps in, they're going to side with business, not labor, and it is going to be like this in the United States for a long time.
12:08
Alright, this is our first step where we're going to pause. If you wish, right? So there is an optional video for the Haymarket Square Riot or the Haymarket Affair, either one.
12:21
If you do want to watch the optional video, you can go back to Google Classroom, get on this assignment, right?
12:32
Here's a digital copy of the same notes sheet that you have right in front of you. And you would go down to the Haymarket Affair and click on it and you can watch the video.
12:42
And you can answer the questions, it'll give you a little more details than I am, but you can click on that and watch the video, okay?
12:47
If not, stick with me and here we go. So the Haymarket Square starts with workers protesting at the McCormick Harvester plant.
12:59
And the police had stepped in and a striker was actually killed, so there was some violence. So the next day, there is a protest that protests the police brutality, right, because a striker had been killed the day before.
13:15
And while they are at this protest, there are many speakers that are kind of on the stage, and they are literally in Haymarket Square, this is in Chicago.
13:25
And violence breaks out. So somebody throws an explosive. We don't really know who, we still don't know who. Some policemen are killed because the bomb is thrown at policemen.
13:41
Dozens of other people are injured and killed. People that are, you know, kind of just innocent bystanders standing around. Eight people are charged.
13:51
Four of them are convicted and hanged. One of them dies by suicide. Three of them are later pardoned. And three of them, the people that are pardoned are actually admitted anarchists.
14:04
So an anarchist is someone who kind of doesn't believe in government. It's kind of a free for all. This has never been a real popular belief in the United States.
14:13
So the big issue for the Haymarket Square event or the Haymarket affair is that people are going to hear about this.
14:20
And they're going to hear that there was a protest by workers against a factory. It ended up being a larger protest.
14:29
Police ended up being killed as well as other people, and there were anarchists involved. So if you're just a regular average old everyday citizen reading this in the paper, Or you are going to think unions are full of anarchists, they don't like the police, and they are very violent.
14:44
This is not good for unions. All right. Our next strike that we're going to look at for this one, I want you to pause the video, this loom, and click on Google Classroom again.
14:57
You're going to go back to the digital copy of the same document you have in front of you. You are going to go to the homestead strike.
15:05
you're going to click on it and you're going to listen to the video and then write down three things that you learned from the video.
15:12
This particular strike does happen in a Carnegie plant in Pennsylvania. So remember when we talked about Carnegie really does do some things that aren't good.
15:20
This is an example. When you finish with the homestead strike video, go on to watch the Pullman video, which is about a strike at the Pullman plant in 1893.
15:33
They'll explain to you a little bit about what the Pullman Plant is like. The issue for workers is that their wages have been cut, but their rents have not.
15:42
And again, the government is going to step in, and I'm sure that you can tell me who side the government is going to be on.
15:48
But I want you to click on that video, and of course, write down three things that you learned, as well as answer this question about how Labor Day is connected to this event.
15:59
All right? I'll see you back in a minute. But once you watch those videos, all right, so here we are back.
16:09
The big significance or lasting effects of all of these strikes is that the American public is going to think that unions, workers who are in unions, they're bad, they advocate violence, people are going to die or get hurt and they're not doing the right thing.
16:32
Another trend is that often the government will step in, and without exception, the government is always going to side with industry or business, never with labor, okay?
16:45
So that is kind of your big significance there. All right. Next, I want you to click on this video about the Triangle Shirt Waste Factory fire.
16:57
here. So again, click on the video. Here I go. I'm just demonstrating it for you. Click on that class work.
17:05
Go back to the digital copy. Click on the video for the Triangle shirt waist factory. Because what this is going to tell you about is how obviously people change their mind, right?
17:20
So the Triangle shirt waist factory fire, if you've never heard of it before, or it happens on March 25th, 1911.
17:26
So now we're 11 years into the new century. Some of these events are now going to maybe start to change people's minds.
17:35
So I want you to tell me three things you learned from the video. What does this event tell us about working conditions?
17:41
Be specific. And what changes do you think people might want after this fire? All right, so pause me, watch that video and I'll see you back in a minute.
17:55
Alright, here we go. So obviously this event, very tragic, and people are going to actually start to see or understand how bad working conditions are, and maybe the government needs to do something about it.
18:11
So people start to maybe soften a little bit towards unions and organize labor. So, the tide is going to turn a little bit, but businesses most definitely fight back.
18:25
Businesses are not going to embrace unions at all. So some of the things that businesses do, they force workers to sign these things called yellow dog contracts, and basically it's a promise.
18:38
I will not join the union or you can fire me. They also, in some cases, especially in the south, the southern state governments will pass laws that allow companies to actually hire prisoners.
18:51
So instead of hiring workers that could legally join a union, they get prisoners in penitentiaries to work in a factory, and they most certainly cannot join unions.
19:02
They absolutely have to work as long as they want to, and holy cow, they don't have to get paid. So this is obviously going to make it very difficult for unions to organize in certain industries or in certain areas.
19:20
At the federal level, the federal government actually goes after unions using the Sherman Antitrust Act. Now the Sherman Antitrust Act, you might remember, we heard about in the Rockefeller video, and the Rockefeller video talked about how San Diego got broken up as a trust, or I'm sorry, as a monopoly
19:41
and you know it was broken up into all these trusts. Well, the federal government is going to be able to use the Sherman Antitrust Act to break up unions because it says they have a monopoly on workers.
19:53
This is not the purpose of the Sherman Antitrust Act, but it's pretty brilliant of the federal government to use it against unions.
20:01
The problems are still going to continue. We will catch
